---
:author: Foo Bar
:title: Controllers
---
Suppose we wanted to add routes to our Padrino application, and we want to organize a set of related routes
within a more structured grouping. Padrino has the notion of a 'controller' block which can group related
routes and make URL(uniform resource locator) generation much easier. Simply add a <tt>controllers.rb</tt>
file or <tt>app/controllers</tt> folder and create a file as such:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/main.rb or controllers.rb
SimpleApp.controller do
get "/test" do
"Text to return"
end

get "/sample" do
"Sample Route"
end
end
</code></pre>

In this case, the controller merely acts as a structured grouping mechanism to allow better organization of
routes. Controllers actually have other benefits as well when used in conjunction with the enhanced Padrino
routing system.

h2. Enhanced Routing

Padrino provides advanced routing definition support to make routes and URL(uniform resource locator)
generation much easier. This routing system supports named route aliases and easy access to url paths. The
benefits of this is that instead of having to hard-code route URLs into every area of your application, now we
can just define the URLs in a single spot and then attach an alias which can be used to refer to the
URL(uniform resource locator) throughout the application.

h2. Basic Routing Aliases

The routing system supports named aliases by using symbols instead of strings for your routes:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/app.rb
class Demoer < Padrino::Application
get :index do
# url is generated as '/'
# url_for(:index) => "/"
end

get :account, :with => :id do
# url is generated as '/account/:id'
# url_for(:account, :id => 5) => "/account/5"
# access params[:id]
end
end
</code></pre>

These routes can then be referenced anywhere in the application:

<pre lang="erb"><code># app/views/example.haml
<%= link_to "Index", url_for(:index) %>
<%= link_to "Account", url_for(:account, :id => 1) %>
</code></pre>

h2. Inline Route Alias Definitions

The routing plugin also supports inline route definitions in which the explicit URL(uniform resource locator)
and the named alias are both defined:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/main.rb
class Demoer < Padrino::Application
get :index, :map => '/index/example' do
# url_for(:index) => "/index/example"
end

get :account, :map => '/the/accounts/:name/and/:id' do
# url_for(:account, :name => "John", :id => 5) => "/the/accounts/John/and/5"
# access params[:name] and params[:id]
end
end
</code></pre>

Routes defined inline this way can be accessed and treated the same way as traditional named aliases:

<pre lang="erb"><code># app/views/example.haml
<%= link_to "Index Page", url_for(:index)%>
<%= link_to "Account Page", url_for(:account, :id => 1) %>
</code></pre>

h2. Namespaced Route Aliases

There is also support for namespaced routes which are organized into a named controller group:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/admin.rb
SimpleApp.controllers :admin do
get :index do
# url is generated as '/admin/'
# url_for(:admin, :index) => "/admin"
end

get :show, :map => "/admin/:id" do
# url is generated as "/admin/#{params[:id]}"
# url_for(:admin, :show, :id => 5) => "/admin/5"
end
end
</code></pre>

You can then reference these routes using the same url_for method:

<pre lang="erb"><code> # app/views/admin.haml
<%= link_to 'admin show page', url_for(:admin, :index) %>
<%= link_to 'admin index page', url_for(:admin, :show, :id => 25) %>
</code></pre>

If you prefer explicit URLs to named aliases, that is also supported within a specified controller group:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/example.rb
SimpleApp.controllers "/admin" do
get "/show" do
# url is generated as "/admin/show"
end

get "/other/:id" do
# url is generated as "/admin/#{params[:id]}"
end
end
</code></pre>

h2. Named Parameters

With Padrino you can also specify named parameters within your route definition:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/example.rb
SimpleApp.controllers :admin do
get :show, :with => :id do
# url is generated as "/admin/show/#{params[:id]}"
# url_for(:admin, :show, :id => 5) => "/admin/show/5"
end

get :other, :with => [:id, :name]  do
# url is generated as "/admin/other/#{params[:id]}/#{params[:name]}"
# url_for(:admin, :other, :id => 5, :name => "hey") => "/admin/other/5/hey"
end

get [:more, :than, :words] do
# url is generated as "/admin/more/#{params[:than]}/#{params[:words]}"
# url_for(:admin, :more, :than => 5, :words => "hey") => "/admin/more/5/hey"
end
end
</code></pre>

You can then reference the URLs using the same url_for method:

<pre lang="erb"><code>
<%= link_to 'admin show page', url_for(:admin_show, :id => 25) %>
<%= link_to 'admin other page', url_for(:admin_other, :id => 25, :name => :foo) %>
</code></pre>

h2. Nested Routes

You can specify parent resources in padrino with the :parent option on the controller:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/example.rb
SimpleApp.controllers :product, :parent => :user do
get :index do
# url is generated as "/user/#{params[:user_id]}/product"
# url_for(:product, :index, :user_id => 5) => "/user/5/product"
end
get :show, :with => :id do
# url is generated as "/user/#{params[:user_id]}/product/show/#{params[:id]}"
# url_for(:product, :show, :user_id => 5, :id => 10) => "/user/5/product/show/10"
end
end
</code></pre>

If need be the parent resource can also be specified on inline routes in addition:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/example.rb
SimpleApp.controllers :product, :parent => :user do
get :index, :parent => :project do
# url is generated as "/user/#{params[:user_id]}/project/#{params[:project_id]}/product"
# url_for(:product, :index, :user_id => 5, :project_id => 8) => "/user/5/project/8/product"
end
end
</code></pre>

h2. Layouts

With Padrino, a custom layout can be specified or the layout can be disabled altogether:

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
class SimpleApp < Padrino::Application
# Disable layouts
disable :layout

# Use the layout located in views/layouts/custom.haml
layout :custom
end
</code></pre>

Note that layouts are __scoped by controller__, so you can apply different layouts to different controllers:

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
SimpleApp.controllers :posts do
# Apply a layout for routes in this controller
# Layout file would be in 'app/views/layouts/posts.haml'
layout :posts
get("/posts") { render :haml, "Uses posts layout" }
end

SimpleApp.controllers :accounts do
# Padrino allows you to apply a different layout for this controller
# Layout file would be in 'app/views/layouts/accounts.haml'
layout :accounts
get("/accounts") { render :haml, "Uses accounts layout" }
end
</code></pre>

If necessary, you also can overwrite the layout for a given route:

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
SimpleApp.controllers :admin do
get :index do
render "admin/index", :layout => :admin
end

get :show, :with => :id do
render "admin/show", :layout => false
end
end
</code></pre>

h2. Provides Formats

With Padrino you can simply declare which formats a request will respond to by using the @provides@ route
configuration:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/example.rb
SimpleApp.controllers :admin do
get :show, :with => :id, :provides => :js do
# url is generated as "/admin/show/#{params[:id]}.#{params[:format]}"
# url_for(:admin, :show, :id => 5, :format => :js) => "/admin/show/5.js"
end

get :other, :with => [:id, :name], :provides => [:html, :json] do
case content_type
when :js    then ... end
when :json  then ... end
end
end
end
</code></pre>

and these formatted route paths can be accessed easily using @url_for@ and then @format@ option:

<pre lang="erb"><code>
<%= link_to 'admin show page', url_for(:admin, show, :id => 25, :format => :js) %>
<%= link_to 'admin other page', url_for(:admin, index, :id => 25, :name => :foo) %>
<%= link_to 'other json', url(:admin, index, :id => 25, :name => :foo, :format => :json) %>
</code></pre>

h2. Route Filters

Before filters are evaluated before each request within the context of the request and can modify the request
and response. Instance variables set in filters are accessible by routes and templates:

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
before do
@note = 'Hi!'
end
</code></pre>

After filter are evaluated after each request within the context of the request and can also modify the
request and response. Instance variables set in before filters and routes are accessible by after filters:

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
after do
puts @note
end
</code></pre>

This is now standard in Sinatra but Padrino adds support for filters being __scoped by controller__ which
means that unlike Sinatra in which a filter is global, in Padrino you can run different filters for each
controller:

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
SimpleApp.controllers :posts do
before { @foo = "bar" }
get("/posts") { render :haml, "Has access to @foo variable" }
end

SimpleApp.controllers :accounts do
before { @bar = "foo" }
get("/accounts") { render :haml, "Has access to @bar variable" }
end
</code></pre>

This allows for more fine-grained filters and prevents the need to have unnecessary filters running on every
route. As of Padrino 0.10.0, there is also a much more powerful route selection system that has been setup:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/example_controller.rb
DemoApp.controller :example do
# Based on a symbol
before :index do
# Code here to be executed
end

# Based on a symbol, regexp and string all in one
before :index, /main/, '/example' do
# Code here to be executed
end

# Also filter by excluding an action
before :except => :index do
# Code here to be executed
end

get :index do
# ...
end
end
</code></pre>

This gives developers a lot more flexibility when running filters and enables much more selective execution in
a convenient way.

h2. Prioritized Routes

Padrino (0.10.0+) has added support for respecting route order in controllers and also allows the developer to
specify certain routes as less or more "important" then others in the route recognition order. Consider two
controllers, the first with a "catch-all" route:

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
# app/controllers/pages.rb
MyApp.controller :pages do
get :show, :map => '/*page' do
"Catchall route"
end
end

# app/controllers/projects.rb
MyApp.controller :projects do
get :index do
"Index"
end
end
</code></pre>

This wouldn't work by default because the second "/projects" endpoint would be eclipsed by the "/*page"
catch-all route and as such @projects@ would not be accessible. To solve this, you can do the following:

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
# app/controllers/pages.rb
MyApp.controller :pages do
# NOTE that this route is now marked as low priority
get :show, :map => '/*page', :priority => :low do
"Catchall route"
end
end

# app/controllers/projects.rb
MyApp.controller :projects do
get :index do
"Index"
end
end
</code></pre>

When setting a routes priority to @:low@, this route is then recognized lower then all "high" and "normal"
priority routes. You are encouraged in cases where there is ambiguity, to mark key routes as @:priority =>
:high@ or catch-all routes as @:priority => :low@ in order to guarantee expected behavior.

h2. Custom Conditions

Padrino has support for Sinatra's custom route conditions as well. This allows you to apply custom condition
checks to evaluate before a route is executed for an incoming request:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/example.rb
SimpleApp.controllers do
def protect(*args)
condition {
unless username == "foo" && password == "bar"
halt 403, "Not Authorized"
end
}
end

get "/", :protect => true do
"Only foo can see this"
end
end
</code></pre>

Conditions can also be specified at the controller and route levels:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># app/controllers/example.rb
# You can specify conditions to run for all routes:

SimpleApp.controller :conditions => {:protect => true} do
def self.protect(protected)
condition do
halt 403, "No secrets for you!" unless params[:key] == "s3cr3t"
end if protected
end

# This route will only return "secret stuff" if the user goes to
# `/private?key=s3cr3t`.
get("/private") { "secret stuff" }

# And this one, too!
get("/also-private") { "secret stuff" }

# But you can override the conditions for each route as needed.
# This route will be publicly accessible without providing the
# secret key.
get :index, :protect => false do
"Welcome!"
end
end
</code></pre>

This gives the developer considerable power to construct arbitrarily complex route conditions and apply them
to any route within their application.

h2. Rendering

Unlike Sinatra, Padrino supports automatic template engine lookups with:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># searches for 'account/index.{erb,haml,...}
render 'account/index'
</code></pre>

It will choose the first one that is discovered, without regards to the type of rendering (erb, haml).
Otherwise you can explicitly specify the type of rendering of your choice (erb, haml).

<pre lang="ruby"><code># example.haml
render :haml, 'account/index'
</code></pre>

Padrino also automatically considers your current locale and/or content_type.

pre[ruby].
# app/controllers/example.rb
SimpleApp.controllers :admin do
get :show, :with => :id, :provides => [:html, :js] do
render "admin/show"
end
end

When you visit the <tt>:show</tt> route with <tt>I18n.locale == :ru</tt> enabled, Padrino will first try to
look for "admin/show.ru.js.*" if nothing matches that criteria, it will try "admin/show.ru.*" then
"admin/show.js.*". As a last resort, if he finds nothing matching your criteria, it will return
"admin/show.erb" (or admin/show.haml)
