---
:author: Foo Bar
:title: Generators
---
p. Padrino provides generator support for quickly creating new Padrino applications. This provides many
benefits such as constructing the recommended Padrino application structure, auto-generating a Gemfile listing
all starting dependencies and guidelines provided within the generated files to help orient a new user to
using Padrino.

One important feature of the generators is that they were built from the ground up to support a wide variety
of tools, libraries and gems for use within your padrino application.

This means that Padrino generators do *not* lock you into using any particular database, ORM, testing
framework, templating engine or javascript library. In fact, when generating an application you can actually
tell Padrino which components you would like to use!

h2. Project Generator

The project generator has several available configuration options:

|_. Options   |_. Default |_. Aliases |_. Description                                                   |
| bundle      | false     | -b        | execute bundler dependencies installation                       |
| root        | .         | -r        | the root destination path for the project                       |
| dev         | false     | none      | use edge version from local git checkout                        |
| app         | nil       | -n        | specify app name different from the project name                |
| tiny        | false     | -i        | generate tiny project skeleton                                  |
| adapter     | sqlite    | -a        | specify orm db adapter (mysql, sqlite, postgres)                |

The usage for the project generator is quite simple:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project <the_app_name> </path/to/create/app> --<component-name> <value>

The simplest possible command to generate a base application would be:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project demo_project

This would construct a Padrino application DemoApp (which extends from Padrino::Application) inside the folder
'demo_project' at our current path. Inside the application there would be configuration and setup performed
for the default components.

You can also define specific components to be used:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project demo_project -t rspec -e haml -m rr -s jquery -d datamapper -c sass

You can also instruct the generator to skip a certain component to avoid using one at all (or to use your
own):

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project demo_project --test none --renderer none

You can also specify an alternate name for your core application using the @--app@ option:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project demo_project --app alternate_app_name # alias -n

The generator uses the <tt>bundler</tt> gem to resolve any application dependencies when the application is
newly created. The necessary bundler command can be executed automatically through the generator with:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project demo_project --run_bundler # alias -b

or this can be done manually through executing command <tt>bundle install</tt> in the terminal at the root of
the generated application.

If not executed manually, the bundling will be performed automatically the first time the application attempts
to boot.
Note that this command only has to be performed when the application is first generated or when the Gemfile is
modified.

The generator framework within Padrino is extensible and additional components and tools can be added easily.
This would be achieved through forking our project and reading through the code in
<tt>lib/generators/project.rb</tt> and the setup instructions inside the relevant files within
<tt>lib/generators/components/</tt>. We are happy to accept pull requests for additional component types not
originally included (although helping us maintain them would also be appreciated).

The available components and their default options are listed below:

|_. Component |_. Default |_. Aliases |_. Options                                                             
|
| orm         | none      | -d        | mongoid, activerecord, datamapper, mongomapper, couchrest, mongomatic, ohm, ripple 
|
| test        | none      | -t        | bacon, shoulda, cucumber, testspec, riot, rspec                       
|
| script      | none      | -s        | prototype, rightjs, jquery, mootools, extcore, dojo                   
|
| renderer    | haml      | -e        | erb, haml, slim, liquid                                               
|
| stylesheet  | none      | -c        | sass, less, scss, compass                                             
|
| mock        | none      | -m        | rr, mocha                                                             
|

Note: Be careful with your naming when using generators and do not have your project name, or any models or
controllers overlap. Avoid naming your app "Posts" and then your controller or subapp with the same name.

h3. Some examples:

p. **Generate a project with a different application name from the project path**

pre[bash]. padrino g my_project -n blog

this will generate the project at path __my_project/__ but the applications name will be **Blog**.

p. **Generate a project with mongoid and run bundler after**

pre[bash]. padrino g project your_project -d mongoid -b

p. **Generate a project with riot test and rr mocking**

pre[bash]. padrino g project your_project -t riot -m rr

p. **Generate a project with sequel with mysql**

pre[bash]. padrino g project your_project -d sequel -a mysql

p. **Generate a tiny project skeleton**

pre[bash]. padrino g project your_project --tiny

p. **Choose a root for your project**

pre[bash]. padrino g project your_project -r /usr/local/padrino

p. This will create a new padrino project in __/usr/local/padrino/your_project/__

p. **Use Padrino from a git cloned repository**

pre[bash]. padrino g project your_project [--dev] # Use padrino from a git checkout

p. Visit [[The Bleeding Edge]] for more info how to setup a *dev* environment.

h2. Plugin Generator

The Plugin Generator allows you to create Padrino projects based on a template file that contains all the
necessary actions needed to create the project. Plugins can also be executed within an existing Padrino
application. The plugin generator provides a simple DSL in addition with leveraging Thor to make generating
projects a breeze!

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project my_project --template path/to/my_template.rb

This will generate a project based on the template file provided. You can also generate a project based on a
remote url such as a "gist":http://gist.github.com/ for an additional level of convenience:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project my_project --template http://gist.github.com/356156

You can also execute template files directly from ["the official templates
repo":http://github.com/padrino/padrino-recipes/tree/master/templates]:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project my_project --template sampleblog

You can also apply templates as plugins to existing Padrino applications:

pre[bash]. $ cd path/to/existing/padrino/app
$ padrino g plugin path/to/my_plugin.rb

You can also execute plugin files directly from ["the official plugins
repo":http://github.com/padrino/padrino-recipes/tree/master/plugins/]:

pre[bash]. $ cd path/to/existing/padrino/app
$ padrino g plugin hoptoad

You can even get a list of available plugins with the following command:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g plugin --list

A simple template (plugin) file might look like this:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># my_template.rb
project :test => :shoulda, :orm => :activerecord
generate :model, "post title:string body:text"
generate :controller, "posts get:index get:new post:new"
generate :migration, "AddEmailToUser email:string"
require_dependencies 'nokogiri'

git :init
git :add, "."
git :commit, "initial commit"

inject_into_file "app/models/post.rb","#Hello", :after => "end\n"
rake "ar:create ar:migrate"
initializer :test, "# Example"

app :testapp do
generate :controller, "users get:index"
end
git :add, "."
git :commit, "second commit"
</code></pre>

Keep in mind that the template file is pure ruby and has full access to ["all available thor
actions":http://rdoc.info/rdoc/wycats/thor/blob/f939a3e8a854616784cac1dcff04ef4f3ee5f7ff/Thor/Actions.html].

h2. Controller Generator

|_. Options   |_. Default |_. Aliases |_. Description                                                   |
| app         | nil       | -n        | specify the application                                         |
| root        | .         | -r        | specify the root destination                                    |
| destroy     | false     | -d        | removes all generated files                                     |

Padrino provides generator support for quickly creating new controllers within your Padrino application. Note
that the controller tests are generated specifically tailored towards the testing framework chosen during
application generation.

Very important to note that controller generators are intended primarily to work within applications created
through the Padrino application generator and that follow Padrino conventions.

Using the controller generator is as simple as:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g controller Admin

If you want create a controller for a specified sub app you can:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g controller Admin -a my_sub_app

You can also specify desired actions to be added to your controller:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g controller Admin get:index get:new post:create

The controller generator will then construct the controller file within <tt>app/controllers/admin.rb</tt> and
also a controller test file at <tt>test/controllers/admin_controller_test.rb</tt> according to the test
framework chosen during app generation. A default route will also be generated mapping to name of the
controller and the route name. For example:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g controller User get:index

will create a url route for :index mapping to "/user/index"

You can destroy controllers that you created via the destroy option and setting it to true. default is false.

pre[bash]. $ padrino g controller User -d

This removes all created controller files.

h2. Model Generator

|_. Options      |_. Default |_. Aliases |_. Description                                                |
| root           | .         | -r        | specify the root destination path                            |
| skip_migration | false     | -s        | skip migration generation                                    |
| destroy        | false     | -d        | removes all generated files                                  |

Padrino provides generator support for quickly creating new models within your Padrino application. Note that
the models (and migrations) generated are specifically tailored towards the ORM component and testing
framework chosen during application generation.

Very important to note that model generators are intended primarily to work within applications created
through the Padrino application generator and that follow Padrino conventions. Using model generators within
an existing application not generated by Padrino will likely not work as expected.

Using the model generator is as simple as:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g model User

You can also specify desired fields to be contained within your User model:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g model User name:string age:integer email:string

The model generator will create multiple files within your application and based on your ORM component.
Usually the model file will generate files similar to the following:

* model definition file [app/models/user.rb]
* migration declaration [db/migrate/xxx_create_users.rb]
* model unit test file  [test/models/user_test.rb]

You can define as many models as you would like in a Padrino application using this generator.

You can destroy models that you created via the destroy option and setting it to true. default is false.

pre[bash]. $ padrino g model User -d

This remove all created model files.

h2. Migration Generator

|_. Options   |_. Default |_. Aliases |_. Description                                                   |
| root        | .         | -r        | specify the root destination path                               |
| destroy     | false     | -d        | removes all generated files                                     |

Padrino provides generator for quickly generating new migrations to change or manipulate the database schema.
These migrations generated will be tailored towards the ORM chosen when generating the application.

Very important to note that migration generators are intended primarily to work within applications created
through the Padrino application generator and that follow Padrino conventions. Using migration generators
within an existing application not generated by Padrino will likely not work as expected.

Using the migration generator is as simple as:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g migration AddFieldsToUsers
$ padrino g migration RemoveFieldsFromUsers

You can also specify desired columns to be added to the migration file:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g migration AddFieldsToUsers last_login:datetime crypted_password:string
$ padrino g migration RemoveFieldsFromUsers password:string ip_address:string

The migration generator will then construct the migration file according to your ORM component chosen
within <tt>db/migrate/xxx_add_fields_to_users.rb</tt> including the columns specified in the command.

You can destroy migrations that you created via the destroy option and setting it to true. default is false.

pre[bash]. $ padrino g migration AddFieldsToUsers -d

This removes the migration file.

h2. Mailer Generator

|_. Options   |_. Default |_. Aliases |_. Description                                                   |
| app         | nil       | -n        | specify the application                                         |
| root        | .         | -r        | specify the root destination path                               |
| destroy     | false     | -d        | removes all generated files                                     |

Padrino provides generator support for quickly creating new mailers within your Padrino application.
Very important to note that mailer generators are intended primarily to work within applications created
through the Padrino application generator and that follow Padrino conventions.

Using the mailer generator is as simple as:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g mailer UserNotifier

If you want create a mailer for a specified sub app you can:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g mailer UserNotifier -a my_sub_app

You can also specify desired delivery actions to be added to the mailer:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g mailer UserNotifier confirm_account welcome inactive_account

The mailer generator will then construct the mailer file within <tt>app/mailers/user_notifier.rb</tt>

You can destroy mailer that you created via the destroy option and setting it to true. default is false.

pre[bash]. $ padrino g mailer UserNotifer -d

This remove all created mailer files.

h2. Sub App Generator

|_. Options   |_. Default |_. Aliases |_. Description                                                   |
| tiny        | false     | -i        | generate tiny app skeleton                                      |
| root        | .         | -r        | specify the root destination path                               |
| destroy     | false     | -d        | removes all generated files                                     |


Unlike other ruby frameworks Padrino is principally designed for mounting multiple apps at the same time.

First you need to create a project:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project demo_project
$ cd demo_project

Now you are in demo_project and you can create your apps:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g app one
$ padrino g app two

By default these apps are mounted under:

* /one
* /two

but you can edit config/apps.rb and change it.

and create controllers:

pre[bash]. your_project$ padrino g controller base --app foo # This will be created for app Foo
your_project$ padrino g controller base           # This will be created for Core app
your_project$ padrino g controller base --app bar # This will be created for app Bar

or mailers:

pre[bash]. your_project$ padrino g mailer registration --app foo  # This will be created for app Foo
your_project$ padrino g mailer registration            # This will be created for Core app
your_project$ padrino g mailer registration --app bar  # This will be created for app Bar


h2. Tiny Skeleton Generator

Both the Project Generator and Sub App Generator allow you to create an even smaller project skeleton. Instead
of the default skeleton, the tiny option removes the need for a controllers, helpers, and mailers folder and
instead generates controllers.rb, helpers.rb, and mailers.rb in its place.

To use the tiny skeleton generator for project run:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project tiny_app -d mongoid --tiny

To use the tiny skeleton generator for app run in your project:

pre[bash]. my_app$ padrino g app tiny_app --tiny

h2. Admin Generator

|_. Options      |_. Default |_. Aliases |_. Description                                                 |
| name           | nil       | -a        | allows you to specify the admin app's name                    |
| root           | .         | -r        | specify the root destination path                             |
| theme          | default   | none      | generate admin app with theme                                 |
| skip_migration | false     | -s        | skip migration generation                                     |
| destroy        | false     | -d        | removes all generated files                                   |

Padrino also comes with a built-in admin dashboard. To generate the admin application in your project:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g admin

You can specify the theme to use for your admin application using the @theme@ flag:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g admin --theme blue

The available themes are: __amro__, __bec__, __bec-green__, __blue__, __default__, __djime-cerulean__,
__kathleene__, __olive__, __orange__, __reidb-greenish__, __ruby__, __warehouse__

This will generate the admin application and mount this at @/admin@. For more information, check out the
["Admin Guide":http://www.padrinorb.com/guides/padrino-admin].
