---
:author: Foo Bar
:title: Getting Started
---
This is a guide intended for a developer that is just getting started with the Padrino web framework (and
perhaps Sinatra or Ruby). This guide will give an overview the various other guides, resources and steps
towards becoming a Sinatra + Padrino aficionado.

You may want to skim through sections you already are familiar with. If you are already familiar with Padrino
and just want to access reference materials, you may want to jump to "our api
docs":http://www.padrinorb.com/api/index.html or the "guides homepage":http://www.padrinorb.com/guides.

If you have any questions be sure to contact us at: "@padrinorb":http://twitter.com/#!/padrinorb, discuss
things on "google groups":https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!forum/padrino, join us on IRC at
“#padrinorb” on freenode or "open an issue":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/issues on GitHub.

h2. Getting to Know Ruby

A detailed overview of Ruby is beyond the scope of our documentation, but this guide is intended to point you
in the right direction and get you familiarized with the important terms. The Padrino web framework is built
in the "Ruby programming language":http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/. The Padrino codebase is a set of modular
libraries for Ruby which are packaged using "RubyGems":http://rubygems.org/.

In order to use Ruby and Padrino, you need to "install the Ruby
interpreter":http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads onto your local machine and setup
"RubyGems":http://rubygems.org/pages/download so you can install ruby packages.

You should now be able to execute the following commands in the terminal:

pre[bash]. $ ruby -v
$ gem -v

and these should return with version numbers and no errors if everything is installed correctly. Once you have
Ruby and Rubygems installed locally, you should become familiar with the Ruby syntax. We recommend a few
resources below to get yourself familiar with Ruby:

* "TryRuby":http://tryruby.org/ - This is an interactive tutorial that takes you step by step through learning
Ruby. This is highly recommended. Visit the site and type "help" to get started.
* "Learn to Program":http://pine.fm/LearnToProgram by Chris Pines - Excellent first Ruby tutorial,
straightforward and excellent overview of the language.
* "Learn Ruby the Hard Way":http://ruby.learncodethehardway.org/ - Newest addition to the group, based off of
Zed's excellent Python tutorial. Set of exercises that teaches Ruby to you in a rigorous but simple approach.
* "Why's Poignant Guide":http://mislav.uniqpath.com/poignant-guide/book/chapter-1.html - Definitely the most
unorthodox way to learn Ruby, but must be mentioned.

Through these guides, learning Ruby the language should be fairly painless and hopefully you come to
appreciate the elegance and simplicity of the syntax. If you enjoy Ruby and want to continue, the next step is
to get familiar with Sinatra, the ruby microframework.

h2. Learning to Love Sinatra

Padrino is a framework which builds on the existing functionality of the "Sinatra":http://sinatrarb.com Ruby
microframework and provides a variety of additional tools and helpers to extend this foundation. To use
Padrino, one should be familiar with the basic usage of Sinatra itself.

First, let's install Sinatra through RubyGems:

pre[bash]. $ gem install sinatra

Thankfully, Sinatra is probably the easiest to learn tool for making web apps you have yet encountered. Here
is an example of a Sinatra application:

pre[ruby]. # app.rb
require 'sinatra'
get '/hi' do
"Hello World!"
end

and then you can start the application with this in your terminal:

pre[bash].
$ ruby -rubygems hi.rb
== Sinatra has taken the stage ...
>> Listening on 0.0.0.0:4567

and then visit @http://localhost:4567/hi@ in your web browser. It really is that easy, but there's a lot more
to learn!

Resources for Sinatra are listed below:

* "Sinatra Introduction":http://www.sinatrarb.com/intro.html
* "Sinatra Book":http://www.sinatrarb.com/book.html
* "Sinatra Github Repo":http://github.com/sinatra/sinatra

There are several good Sinatra tutorials as well:

* "Singing with Sinatra":http://net.tutsplus.com/tutorials/ruby/singing-with-sinatra/ - Excellent beginners
guide to learning Sinatra.
* "TitusD Sinatra":http://titusd.co.uk/2010/04/07/a-beginners-sinatra-tutorial - Step by step beginners
tutorial for Sinatra.
* "Sinatra Usage Examples":http://blog.maxaller.name/2010/01/a-brief-introduction-to-ruby-sinatra-and-haml -
Great set of examples for how to use Sinatra in code snippets.

Read through these tutorials to understand routes, helpers, and the request/response cycle that is exposed
through Sinatra. The most comprehensive resource is probably the "Sinatra
Book":http://www.sinatrarb.com/book.html so make sure to skim through that and familiarize yourself with the
concepts before continuing to Padrino.

h2. Scalable Sinatra using Padrino

Once you have a solid understanding of Sinatra then you can also already understand the simplest functionality
of Padrino. This is because Padrino acts as a super-set of Sinatra.

First, check out the [[Installation]] guide to get Padrino setup on your computer through RubyGems.

Padrino itself is a set of modular extensions for Sinatra. These extensions are actually fairly standalone and
can you can actually use Padrino modules in your existing Sinatra apps through the "Standalone
Usage":http://www.padrinorb.com/guides/standalone-usage-in-sinatra guide. This usage is intended for
application that have already been built that would benefit from a particular aspect of Padrino such as the
useful view helpers. Check out "our api docs":http://www.padrinorb.com/api/index.html for more information
about the individual modules.

If you are able to convert your project to Padrino or start a new application from scratch, we recommend using
the full Padrino stack which makes starting a new project much easier. The best way to get familiar with
Padrino is to first check out the [[Blog Tutorial]] which takes you step by step through creating a blog in
Padrino with an accompanying screencast. You may also want to checkout the "Why
Padrino":http://www.padrinorb.com/pages/why guide to understand the benefits of using Padrino.

You should also take time to familiarize yourself with the various "components" Padrino allows you to use for
your application. To make things simple, if you are new to the Ruby community and want to create a Padrino
application with a good default set of components, generate your project with this command:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project my_project -d datamapper -t riot -s jquery -e haml -m mocha

And then read up on these components:

* "DataMapper":http://datamapper.org/docs/ - Great Object Relational Mapper for interacting with data
* "Haml":http://haml-lang.com/docs.html - Solid templating choice for views
* "jQuery":http://jquery.com/ - Excellent javascript framework for frontend development
* "Riot":https://github.com/thumblemonks/riot - Popular unit testing framework for ruby
* "Mocha":http://mocha.rubyforge.org/ - Popular mocking and stubbing for tests

There are also a few important guides that cover the vast majority of Padrino's functionality. These are
definitely recommended reading:

* [[Blog Tutorial]] - Step by step blog tutorial using Padrino
* [[Generators]] - A reference guide for the generator and the various components
* [[Basic Projects|Project Types]] - Overview of the various project types
* [[Application Helpers]] - A reference guide for the view helpers available
* [[Controllers|Controllers and Routing]] - An overview of the enhanced routing system
* [[Padrino Mailer|Delivering Mail]] - Overview of how to deliver mail in Padrino applications
* [[Padrino Admin|Admin and Authentication]] - Admin dashboard and authentication system
* [[Caching Support|Site Caching]] - Page and fragment caching system
* [[Mounting Applications|Mounting Sub-applications]] - Explanation of the "application" mounting process
* [[Development Commands|Development and Terminal Commands]] - Important notes about development

These guides should shed light on the various aspects that make Padrino helpful while developing Sinatra-based
applications.

h2. Extending Padrino Projects

As you being building real projects with Padrino, you will quickly require additional functionality not built
into Padrino itself. Thankfully finding and using modular libraries that add additional functionality to your
Sinatra and Padrino applications is quite painless.

In order to manage dependencies for a project, Padrino relies on another RubyGem called
"Bundler":http://gembundler.com. A default Padrino Gemfile looks akin to this:

<pre lang="ruby"><code># Gemfile
source :rubygems

# Project requirements
gem 'rake'
gem 'rack-flash'
# Component requirements
# ...more gems...
gem 'padrino', '0.10.2'
</code></pre>

All dependencies and libraries required for your project should be declared in the Bundler @Gemfile@ which is
generated automatically with every Padrino application. Once the dependencies have been declared, simply run

pre[bash]. $ bundle install

which will resolve and install all the required libraries. Check out the "Bundler
documentation":http://gembundler.com/ for more details about how this works.

The best extensions to look for are those that have already been included as "recipes" in our
"padrino-recipes":http://github.com/padrino/padrino-recipes repository. Any recipe included there represents a
one command installation of the specified functionality. For instance, suppose you want to setup pagination in
your application for a resource. Installing the "will_paginate":https://github.com/mislav/will_paginate gem is
as simple as applying the recipe:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g plugin will_paginate

which will install that gem into your project (and Gemfile) automatically. If you can't find a recipe in the
"Recipe Box":http://github.com/padrino/padrino-recipes then be sure to search for rack middlewares or sinatra
compatible libraries to use in your app:

* "Rack Middlewares":http://coderack.org/middlewares
* "Sinatra Extensions":http://www.sinatrarb.com/extensions-wild.html
* "Padrino Extensions":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/wiki/Extensions
* "Padrino Integrations":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/wiki/Integrations

and of course never underestimate searching "GitHub":https://github.com and finding Rack or Sinatra compatible
repositories. Any Rack / Sinatra / Padrino libraries will all generally work seamlessly in Padrino projects.
Consider "adding a recipe":http://github.com/padrino/padrino-recipes for your favorite extensions!
