---
:author: Foo Bar
:title: Home
---
p. Padrino is a ruby framework built upon the excellent "Sinatra Microframework":http://www.sinatrarb.com/.
Sinatra is a DSL for creating simple web applications in Ruby with speed and minimal effort. This framework
makes it as fun and easy as possible to code increasingly advanced web applications by expanding upon Sinatra
while maintaining the spirit that made it great.

h2. Features

Here is a list of major functionality Padrino provides on top of Sinatra:

|>. *Agnostic:*      | Full support for many popular testing, templating, mocking, and database libraries. |
|>. *Generators:*    | Create Padrino applications, models, controllers i.e: <tt>padrino g project</tt>. |
|>. *Mountable:*     | Unlike other ruby frameworks, principally designed for mounting multiple apps. |
|>. *Routing:*       | Full url named routes, named params, respond_to support, before/after filter support. |
|>. *Tag Helpers:*   | View helpers such as: <tt>tag</tt>, <tt>content_tag</tt>, <tt>input_tag</tt>. |
|>. *Asset Helpers:* | View helpers such as: <tt>link_to</tt>, <tt>image_tag</tt>,
<tt>javascript_include_tag</tt>. |
|>. *Form Helpers:*  | Builder support such as: <tt>form_tag</tt>, <tt>form_for</tt>, <tt>field_set_tag</tt>,
<tt>text_field</tt>. |
|>. *Text Helpers:*  | Useful formatting like: <tt>relative_time_ago</tt>, <tt>js_escape_html</tt>,
<tt>sanitize_html</tt>.  |
|>. *Mailer:*        | Fast and simple delivery support for sending emails (akin to ActionMailer). |
|>. *Admin:*         | Builtin Admin interface (like Django). |
|>. *Logging:*       | Provide a unified logger that can interact with your ORM or any library. |
|>. *Reloading:*     | Automatically reloads server code during development. |
|>. *Localization:*  | Full support of I18n ||

h2. Guides

When getting started with Sinatra or Padrino for the first time, we recommend you check out the [[Getting
Started]] guide which provides an overview the rest of our resources. Also be sure to check out the [[Blog
Tutorial]] for a step by step walkthrough of building a Padrino project.

Padrino consists of multiple modules which enhance Sinatra in different ways. Each component is described in
detail below:

* [[Getting Started]]
* [[Generators]]
* [[Application Helpers]]
* [[Controllers|Controllers and Routing]]
* [[Development Commands|Development and Terminal Commands]]
* [[Mounting Applications|Mounting Sub-applications]]
* [[Padrino Mailer|Delivering Mail]]
* [[Padrino Admin|Admin and Authentication]]
* [[Caching Support|Site Caching]]

Note that as a user of Padrino, each of the major components can be pulled in [[Standalone Usage in
Sinatra|standalone]] to an existing Sinatra application or they can be used altogether in a full-stack Padrino
project.

Those guides should provide a pretty good overview but if you have any questions be sure to contact us:
"@padrinorb":http://twitter.com/#!/padrinorb, discuss things on "google
groups":https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!forum/padrino, join us on IRC at “#padrinorb” on freenode or
"open an issue":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/issues on GitHub.
