---
:author: Foo Bar
:title: Padrino Admin
---
Padrino comes shipped with a slick and beautiful Admin Interface, with the following features:

| Orm Agnostic      | Adapters for datamapper, sequel, activerecord, mongomapper, mongoid, couchrest |
| Authentication    | User Authentication Support, User Authorization Management                     |
| Template Agnostic | Erb and Haml Rendering Support                                                 |
| Scaffold          | You can create a new "admin interface" by providing a single Model             |
| MultiLanguage     | English, German, Russian, Danish, French, Brazilian and Italian localizations  |

h2. Admin Usage

Create a new project:

pre[bash]. $ padrino g project fun-test
$ cd fun-test

Create the admin application:

pre[bash]. fun-test $ padrino g admin

Follow the instructions in your terminal and provide some valid email and password for your newly created
admin account:

* edit your config/database.rb
* migrate your database # padrino rake ar:migrate or # dm:migrate
* seed your database with some data # padrino rake seed

Your admin section is now "setup": you can start padrino <tt>padrino start</tt> and point your web browser to
"http://localhost:3000/admin":http://localhost:3000/admin and log in with your admin account credentials.

If you need to create some sort of "scaffold" (basic CRUD actions) create a _model_, migrate your database,
generate your scaffolding folder structure and views and add those to your admin section by running this
series of commands:

pre. fun-test $ padrino g model post title:string body:text
fun-test $ padrino rake dm:migrate # or ar:migrate
fun-test $ padrino g admin_page post
fun-test $ padrino start

That's it! Browse to "http://localhost:3000/admin":http://localhost:3000/admin and access your model by
clicking on the newly created tab on your admin navbar: there you can create, edit, destroy and display your
objects.

h2. Admin Authentication

Padrino Admin uses a single model Account for managing roles, memberships and permissions (User Authentication
and Authorization).

h3. Scenario Ecommerce (User Authentication)

To make some practical example, let's examine some common ecommerce application scenario, where we usually
need to restrain some users to get access to some of our controllers actions; we can easily accomplish this by
editing our _model_ accordingly to our authentication needs:

<pre lang="ruby">class MyEcommerce < Padrino::Application
enable :authentication
enable :store_location
set    :login_page, "/login"

access_control.roles_for :any do |role|
role.project "/customer/orders"
role.project "/cart/checkout"
end
end
</pre>

p. In the above example we are protecting those paths starting with <tt>/customer/orders</tt> and
<tt>/cart/checkout</tt>. The result will be that an unauthenticated user will not be able to access those
actions, and he will be asked to authenticate first by visiting our
<tt>:login_page # => "/login"</tt> and by providing his login credentials (default authentication behaviour
is email and password).

When successfully logged in, he will be granted access to those two pages.

h3. Admin Scenario (User Authorization)

For Another example, let's suppose that you need your *admin* account to do certain things and have access to
certain controller actions, and your *editor* account needs to be restrained to get access to those same admin
actions.

Padrino admin generator, will create for you a new <tt>Account</tt> model with a default <tt>role</tt>
attribute.

<pre lang="ruby"> class Admin < Padrino::Application
enable :authentication
disable :store_location
set :login_page, "/admin/sessions/new"

access_control.roles_for :any do |role|
role.protect "/"
role.allow "/sessions"
end

access_control.roles_for :admin do |role|
role.project :settings, "/settings"
end

access_control.roles_for :editor do |role|
role.project :posts, "/posts"
role.project :categories, "/categories"
end
end
</pre>

p. In the above example, we _protect_ the entire admin section (all paths starting with "/") with the only
exception for all those paths starting with <tt>/sessions</tt> giving our <tt>unauthenticated</tt> users the
possibility to log in by redirecting them to our login page and asking them to provide their email and
password.

If we are logged in as an *admin* (account.role == 'admin') we will have access *only* to the
<tt>/settings</tt> path.

If we are logged in as an *editor* (account.role == 'editor') we will have access *only* to the
<tt>/posts</tt> and <tt>/categories</tt> paths instead.

h2. Contributing Persistence Adapters

p. If you are planning to use padrino with other adapters rather than the currently supported ones, and you
want to contribute to the project by extending its support with additional adapters like ohm, cassandra and so
on, be sure to check out the [[Adding New Components|adding new components]] guide.
