---
:author: Foo Bar
:title: Rake Tasks
---
p. After generating a new padrino project, you will not find any Rakefile in your generated project folder
structure; in fact it's not strictly needed to build a new one because we can already use padrino rake:

pre[bash]. padrino rake
# or for a list of tasks
padrino rake -T

p. If you need custom tasks you can add those to:

* _your_project_/*lib/tasks*
* _your_project_/*tasks*
* _your_project_/*test*
* _your_project_/*spec*

p. Padrino will look recursively for any <tt>*.rake</tt> file in any of these directories.

p. Padrino by default has some useful tasks.

h2. Basic

p. Like other frameworks we have an _:environment_ task that loads our <tt>environment</tt> and apps. Example:

pre[ruby]. # This is a custom task
# task/version.rake
task :version => :environment do
puts Padrino.version
end

h2. Routes

p. We have support for retrieving a list of named routes within your application for easy access.

pre[bash]. padrino rake routes

which will return all the named routes for your project:

<pre><code>
Application: core
URL  REQUEST  PATH
(:guides, :search)    GET    /guides/search
(:guides, :index)    GET    /guides
(:guides, :show)    GET    /guides/:id

Application: foo
(:blog, :index)    GET    /blog
(:blog, :show)    GET    /blog/:id
</code></pre>

h2. Testing

p. When testing with Padrino you have a builtin <tt>padrino rake test</tt> or for rspec <tt>padrino rake
spec</tt>.

pre[bash]. padrino rake test # => for bacon, riot, shoulda
padrino rake spec # => for rspec

p. you can customize _test/test.rake_ or _spec/spec.rake_

h2. I18n

p. You can auto generate a _yml_ file for localizing your models using this command:

pre[bash]. padrino rake locale:models

p. See [[Localization]] for detailed instructions.

h2. Orm

p. Padrino has rake tasks for _DataMapper_ , _ActiveRecord_, _Sequel_, _Mongomapper_,and _Mongoid_ with some
*bonuses*.

p. *NOTE*: we have a *namespace* for each orm, because of this, Padrino can mount several applications and
each of them can use different orms without conflict, so that you can have multiple applications living
together and one of them can use DataMapper, while another _ActiveRecord/MongoMapper/Couch/Sequel_ instead. In
this way we prevent collisions.

h4. ActiveRecord  Tasks:

pre[bash].
rake ar:abort_if_pending_migrations    # Raises an error if there are pending migrations.
rake ar:auto:upgrade                   # Uses schema.rb to auto-upgrade.
rake ar:charset                        # Retrieves database charset.
rake ar:collation                      # Retrieves databsae collation.
rake ar:create                         # Creates the database as defined in config/database.yml
rake ar:create:all                     # Creates local databases as defined in config/database.yml
rake ar:drop                           # Drops the database for the current Padrino.env
rake ar:drop:all                       # Drops local databases defined in config/database.yml
rake ar:forward                        # Pushes the schema to the next version.
rake ar:migrate                        # Migrates the database through scripts in db/migrate.
rake ar:migrate:down                   # Runs the "down" for a given migration VERSION.
rake ar:migrate:redo                   # Rollbacks current migration and migrates up to version
rake ar:migrate:reset                  # Resets your database using your migrations.
rake ar:migrate:up                     # Runs the "up" for a given migration VERSION NUMBER
rake ar:reset                          # Drops and recreates the database using db/schema.rb.
rake ar:rollback                       # Rolls back the schema to previous schema version.
rake ar:schema:dump                    # Creates a portable db/schema.rb file.
rake ar:schema:load                    # Loads a schema.rb file into the database.
rake ar:schema:to_migration            # Creates a migration from schema.rb
rake ar:schema:to_migration_with_reset # Creates a migration and resets the migrations log.
rake ar:setup                          # Creates the database, loads the schema, and seeds data.
rake ar:structure:dump                 # Dumps the database structure to a SQL file.
rake ar:version                        # Retrieves the current schema version number.

p. *rake ar:auto:upgrade*

p. This is some sort of super cool and useful task for people like me who don't love migrations (especially
for small apps). It's a forked version of "auto_migrations":http://github.com/pjhyett/auto_migrations

p. Basically, instead of writing migrations you can directly edit your *schema.rb* and perform _a non
destructive_ migration with <tt>padrino rake ar:auto:upgrade</tt>.

h4. DataMapper Tasks:

pre[bash].
rake dm:auto:migrate           # Performs an automigration (resets your db data)
rake dm:auto:upgrade           # Performs a non destructive automigration
rake dm:create                 # Creates the database
rake dm:drop                   # Drops the database (postgres and mysql only)
rake dm:migrate                # Migrates the database to the latest version
rake dm:migrate:down[version]  # Migrates down using migrations
rake dm:migrate:up[version]    # Migrates up using migrations
rake dm:reset                  # Drops the database, and migrates from scratch
rake dm:setup                  # Create the database migrate and initialize with the seed data

h4. Sequel Tasks:

pre[bash].
rake sq:migrate:auto           # Perform automigration (reset your db data)
rake sq:to[version]            # Perform migration up/down to VERSION
rake sq:up                     # Perform migration up to latest migration available
rake sq:down                   # Perform migration down (erase all data)

h4. Mongomapper Tasks:

pre[bash].
rake mm:translate              # Generates .yml files for I18n translations

h4. Mongoid Tasks:

p. Available in 0.9.21

pre[bash].
rake mi:drop                    # Drops all the collections for the database for the current environment
rake mi:create_indexes          # Create the indexes defined on your mongoid models
rake mi:objectid_convert        # Convert string objectids in mongo database to ObjectID type
rake mi:cleanup_old_collections # Clean up old collections backed up by objectid_convert

h4. Seed:

p. Like in Rails we can populate our db using _db/seeds.rb_ here's an example (from our padrino-admin):

<pre>
email     = shell.ask "Which email do you want use for loggin into admin?"
password  = shell.ask "Tell me the password to use:"

shell.say ""

account = Account.create(:email => email, :password => password,
:password_confirmation => password, :role => "admin")

if account.valid?
shell.say "Perfect! Your account was created."
shell.say ""
shell.say "Now you can start your server with padrino start and then login into /admin with:"
shell.say "   email: #{email}"
shell.say "   password: #{password}"
shell.say ""
shell.say "That's all!"
else
shell.say "Sorry but some thing went worng!"
shell.say ""
account.errors.full_messages.each { |m| shell.say "   - #{m}" }
end
</pre>
