---
:author: Foo Bar
:tags: padrino, sinatra, ruby
:categories: Update
:title: "Looking at Projects using Padrino "
---
h2. Padrino Applications

There have been a great deal of Sinatra + Padrino applications released into the wild over the last 2 years.
Many of these have actually been "Lipsiasoft":http://www.lipsiasoft.com/portfolio websites built in Padrino by
Davide, one of our core team members. Padrino originally started in part because of Davide's interest in using
Sinatra at his own Italy-based consulting company.

In addition to the applications released and deployed by the core team, there have also been a number of
interesting applications built by others in the community. A few are highlighted below.

h3. Fikus

"Fikus":https://github.com/bratta/fikus is the "Simple Ruby CMS" created by "Tim
Gourley":https://github.com/bratta of the Engine Yard team. This simple content management features an admin
interface, markdown for page contents, easy extensibility, mongodb-backed data store, and page caching.

Right now, the easiest way to use fikus is to simply "fork the project":https://github.com/bratta/fikus and
begin making your own changes. All you need to do is clone the project locally and then use bundler to install
dependencies. In addition, you need to be running mongodb for persistence.

h3. Piccioto

"Piccioto":https://github.com/apeacox/picciotto is a "minimalistic website framework based on Padrino" created
by "Andrea Pavoni":https://github.com/apeacox of digitalbricks in Italy. This simple website framework allows
you to create simple hybrid web sites containing static and dynamic components. This framework is composed of
many tools which can be used for easy web development and features Html5 Boilerplates, Haml Templates, Sass
stylesheets, Rspec testing and semi-static page support.

Right now, the easiest way to use Piccioto is to simply "fork the
project":https://github.com/apeacox/picciotto and begin making your own changes. All you need to do is clone
the project locally and then use bundler to install dependencies. Next you can put static pages in
@app/views/main/static@ and add other routes as necessary to your application.

h3. Presto

"Presto":https://github.com/pengwynn/presto is an effort to combine Padrino with
"Nesta":http://github.com/gma/nesta to build a simple Sinatra-based CMS that can be mounted into a larger
application. This project was created by "Wynn Netherland":https://github.com/pengwynn who works a popular
podcast about open-source called ["TheChangeLog":http://thechangelog.com/]. Padrino was actually featured on
the program about 9 months ago where they "interviewed
us":http://thechangelog.com/post/708173099/episode-0-2-7-padrino-ruby-web-framework about Padrino.

The easiest way to use this project is to simply "clone the repository":https://github.com/pengwynn/presto and
mount it as a sub-application in your Padrino project.

h3. Notable Mentions

In addition to those projects, there are many others out there which we know about and many more which we
don't! Here is a list of a few more we thought were worth checking out:

* "Padrino Web":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-web - The web application powering our official Padrino
website and blog.
* "pergola":https://github.com/ryanfitz/pergola - Created by Ryan Fitz and provides a web front-end to
MongoDB.
* "haircut":https://github.com/udzura/haircut - Created by Uchio Kondo and is a simple url shortener in
Padrino and MongoDB.
* "moolah":https://github.com/mcmire/moolah - Created by Elliot Winkler and is a tiny money management
application.
* "mashup":https://github.com/mwlang/mashup - Created by Michael Lang and is a simple RSS feed reader.
* "me-tee":https://github.com/pepe/me-tee - Created by Josef Pospíšil and is a small shop for a t-shirt
business.

If you have a project built on Padrino that is not mentioned here, please let us know about it!

h2. Padrino Libraries

There are also many libraries built to extend Padrino's functionality. Many of these provide excellent
features to make development even easier. We select three to feature below:

h3. padrino-fields

"padrino-fields":https://github.com/activestylus/padrino-fields by
"activestylus":https://github.com/activestylus is a framework to make form building even easier in Padrino
applications. Once you install this application and register this in a Padrino app:

pre[ruby]. # Gemfile
gem "padrino-fields"
# app.rb
register PadrinoFields
set :default_builder, 'PadrinoFieldsBuilder'

You can begin using forms such as:

pre[haml]. app/views/form.haml
- form_for @user do |f|
= f.input :username
= f.input :password
= f.submit

This will generate a form with labels for username and password - supplying the appropriate inputs, labels and
error messages on missing/invalid fields. PadrinoFields looks at your database columns to generate default
inputs. Currently only supports datamapper but can be extended to support any component.

h3. simple-navigation

"simple-navigation":https://github.com/andi/sinatra-simple-navigation by "Andi
Schacke":https://github.com/andi is a module that makes creating simple navigations with multiple levels easy
in Rails, Sinatra or Padrino applications. You can render your navigation as an html list, link list or with
breadcrumbs.

Simply install the application with:

pre[ruby]. # Gemfile
gem 'sinatra-simple-navigation', :require => 'sinatra/simple-navigation'
# app.rb
register Sinatra::SimpleNavigation

and then run bundle install and begin defining your navigation structure. For examples, check out the "simple
nav demos":http://github.com/andi/simple-navigation-demo.

h3. padrino-warden

"padrino-warden":https://github.com/jondot/padrino-warden by "Dotan J. Nahum":https://github.com/jondot is a
module that provides authentication for your Padrino application through
["Warden":https://github.com/hassox/warden].

h3. Notable Mentions

There are other libraries definately worth checking out listed below:

* "padrino-responders":https://github.com/nu7hatch/padrino-responders
* "padrino-form-errors":https://github.com/nu7hatch/padrino-form-errors
* "padrino-contrib":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-contrib
* "padrino-haml-pagination":https://github.com/sumskyi/padrino-haml-pagination

If you have a library built on Padrino that is not mentioned here, please let us know about it!

h2. People Using Padrino

There are also a number of developers and consulting companies that have been using Padrino for various
projects. A few of them we know of are listed below:

* "Dynosoft":http://www.dynosoft.com
* "BakedWeb":http://bakedweb.net/portfolio/web-development
* "Fred Wu":http://fredwu.me/post/759061247/wuit-com-now-runs-on-padrino
* "Professional Dilettante":http://professionaldilettante.com/padrino/2010.06.20
* "BroadMac":http://broadmac.net/

This is only a very small list of the people using Padrino. Since we never made much of an effort to compile
this information before, we would love to know if you are using Padrino or picking modules into your Sinatra
applications. We want to post more regularly on the community around Padrino in the future. You can let us
know by sending us a message on Github (nesquena, achiu, daddye) or on our "google
groups":http://groups.google.com/group/padrino or through email to nesquena(AT)gmail(DOT)com. Look forward to
hearing from you.
