---
:author: Foo Bar
:tags: padrino, release
:categories: Ruby, Update
:title: Padrino 0.9.21 - Nested Forms, Translations and More
---
There are no breaking changes from the previous version. The major changes are below:

h2. Nested Object Forms

One of the most commonly requested features is nested object form support within our view helpers. This
handles the case where a form should create multiple related objects at once of different types.

For instance if you have a user and he has an address which is stored in a separate model. Now Padrino
supports agnostic form builders for nested objects. Using this is quite simple and extends the existing form
syntax:

pre[ruby]. # app/views/example.haml
# app/views/person/_form.html.haml
- form_for @person, '/person/create'  do |f|
= f.text_field :name
= f.text_field :favorite_color
- f.fields_for :addresses do |address_form|
= address_form.label :street
= address_form.text_field :street
= address_form.label :city
= address_form.text_field :city
- unless address_form.object.new_record?
= address_form.check_box '_destroy'
= address_form.label '_destroy', :caption => 'Remove'
= submit_tag "Save"

For the details be sure to checkout the "Application Helper
Guide":http://www.padrinorb.com/guides/application-helpers to learn more.

h2. Routing Fixes

Joshua Hull in particular can be thanked for many of these routing fixes reported by our users. In particular:

* Routing now properly supports variables within an index route
* Fixes routes with conjunction of :map and :with
* Fixes regular expression route captures
* Laziness of provides now conveys its format neediness [Fixes "Issue
412":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/issues/closed#issue/412]

<pre lang="ruby"><code>
# app/controllers/example.rb
get :index, :map => '/bugs', :with => :id do
# ...
end

get %r{/([0-9]+)/} do |num|
"Your lucky number: #{num} #{params[:captures].first}"
end
</code></pre>

Regular expression routes should now work as expected in nearly all cases.

h2. Component Fixes

* Updated mongomapper adapter to use rails3 branch
* Updated datamapper gen to store correctly passwords
* Adds mongoid rake tasks for maintaining database

h2. Traditional and Simplified Chinese Translations

This release brings support for Traditional Chinese(thanks to ayamomiji) and Simplified Chinese translations.
This means that the Padrino Admin application as well as all form helpers are properly localized to this
language. If you speak a language that Padrino doesn't yet support, please consider contributing! We are happy
to help get you started.

h2. Other fixes

* Major changes to output handling for padrino helpers allowing easier template integration
("gist":https://gist.github.com/829030)
* Better project generation name validations
* Fixes the select_tag to have better support for multiple options
* Cleans up bundler integration removing legacy support for 0.9
* Fixed issue with error_message_on where incorrect object was being accessed
* Layouts are properly found now with shorthand aliases
** @render "brochure/home", :layout => :narrow@

A full list of changes can be seen by looking at our "github commit
history":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commits/master for more details. We are already working
on a 0.9.22 release will should include a few exciting new features. If you run into any problems please do
let us know on the "Github Issues":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/issues page.
