---
:author: Foo Bar
:tags: ruby, updates
:categories: Ruby, Update
:title: Padrino 0.9.22 - Quick Followup Release
---
h2. Locked Padrino to Sinatra 1.1

Padrino will soon be fully compatible with Sinatra 1.2.0. Until then, we locked Padrino to Sinatra < 1.2.0 in
order to guarantee proper functioning in this release.

h2. Performance Improvements

Padrino is always striving to be faster and to give more throughput. After all a big advantage of Padrino is
that it require less memory and resources than other frameworks as well as providing higher requests per
second. There has been a recent push to "update our
benchmarks":https://github.com/DAddYE/web-frameworks-benchmark/wiki/achiu to be as correct and relevant as
possible. Thanks to judofyr for his help with making the benchmarks more accurate. See "the
results":https://github.com/DAddYE/web-frameworks-benchmark/wiki/achiu or fork us and help improve them.

In that vein we also made to small changes to improve performance:

* Padrino now subclasses from Sinatra::Base rather than Sinatra::Application. This is faster and doesn't
remove any functionality we require.
* Padrino now supports the @set :padrino_logging, false@ option to stop padrino from logging and improve
speed significantly in return.

There will be a stronger performance push soon as we work to keep Padrino as lightweight as possible.

h2. HTTP Fixes

Patrick Lef has been kind enough to point out multiple failing http specs in our core handling, so we
"made":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/8f5d1b5104427482ffd16146fb22e30f5dc6ee60" a
"few":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/25042a6c734bbfb97a893fa898d4c9d8924aa810
["fixes":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/7127017840e8adaee85c345d8fa02655b0fff4f2]. Thanks
to core Padrino member Florian for putting those all together so quickly!

Major changes were:

* Set status to 406 on non-provided ACCEPTS
* Return first provided mime-type on ACCEPT = */*
* Assume */* if no ACCEPT header is given

Being a web server, Padrino desires to fully respect the standard behaviors specified and we are getting
closer each release :) If you know of any outstanding bugs please "open an
issue":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/issues.

h2. Japanese Translations

"udzura":https://github.com/udzura recently sent us Japanese translations to Padrino. We have really gotten
quite a lot of internationalization support for admin and every new language is great to be able to include.
Are we missing a localization for your language? Be sure to let us know or "submit a
patch":http://www.padrinorb.com/pages/contribute to help us include that.

h2. Compatibility fixes

* Fixes mongoid locking it to correct dependency
* Fixes password encryption in the account model
* Fixes mongomapper template in admin
