---
:author: Foo Bar
:tags: padrino, sinatra, ruby
:categories: Update
:title: Padrino 0.10.1 - Mongo Cache Store, Routing, Translation, and Bug Fixes
---
h2. Mongo Cache Store

"aliem":https://github.com/aliem sent us a pull request for a Mongo-based cache store that plugs into our
existing "padrino-cache":http://www.padrinorb.com/guides/padrino-cache system. Thanks to his work, all the
caching goodness can now be stored with Mongo. If you see a missing adapter to our caching solution, please
consider sending us a pull request. Commits
"here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/2d69af735367879bcd65b85c994c235d1d68e244,
"here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/a6da03ca2e1311dd7a8b8f1175be39009b0ecccb, and
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/80a74af0231496904d09ab715d81105f158c738f].

h2. Routing Fixes

There are a handful of important routing fixes in this release, thanks to
"joshbuddy":https://github.com/joshbuddy.

* Parent support restful routing:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/44870a8cd5a047478378b71f94d3d9feba801141]
* Before filters are called regardless of matching:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/4afab7c7385d74a6c44801cb12c20981f23059c8]

Be sure to "raise an issue":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/issues if you experience any routing
problems.

h2. Translation Fixes

We have made an effort to improve the reliability and completeness of our translations in this release largely
thanks to ["TweeKane":https://github.com/TweeKane] who brought these issues to our attention. We have
corrected the known issues with the translations and also added locale tests to prevent these problems in the
future.

* Added Missing IT translations:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/b3edab9b62c8a7fee248184c26757d5380a1e39e]
* Adds  missing CS, DE, NL locales: commits
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/db78dc2ae482ebd7217568afcef3e8a48506607b] and
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/a71bff4ef5b346b62bc6d5c259c3fcef46f08a61]
* Fixes to FR, CN, RU locales (Thanks ["TweeKane":https://github.com/TweeKane]): commits
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/38a2d1b5a7ae8d33f7b51d79a406e8708e547a65],
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/7dd6dfde011515f0824d206983bcb78865644ab4], and
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/0da9c06ecd9b5679c585376177acb4931cbc8c38]
* Adds unit tests for locales: commits
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/17873849d0a70f4087155b035ece523df10131be], and
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/2fd84e43933163f282ecedbfd76a1bc6c1677628]

h2. Compatibility and Bug Fixes

* Padrino is now fully compatible with Slim 1.0 and Ruby 1.9.3:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/b6dcc164607a77eb3242ed61fc5fd1e1a33c52df]
* Padrino is now compatible with bundler ~> 1.0:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/cb5927ba3e829cb14e943b6cb447945553f1c676]
* Admin generator now properly destroys access control when removed:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/3f6fb6b5bca23a1f99eb8f944c557cdc159490d4]
* Fixes admin generator with namespaced models:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/cdca24436826676edac530c1a15fe5d2ba74402b]
* Cleanup Rake::DSL inclusion causing errors on 1.9.2:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/af8aa97cf5fb9702f50e6e57223de60e0f603b72]
* Quick fix for hiding 'padrino.instance' environment data:
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/20eb22907dc97cfdb8d3d8af1903d5165bef5250]
* Allow configuring of logger ahead of load: commits
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/2d877931fcdb7902dd126b5e164d52e12964cf89],
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/e3ff9ca75888cb6fa052a3b24131f0c2542337a4], and
["here":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/cce0719d2fff58e518788c639b7d15f4b66e633c]
* Cleanup error message (Thanks "mariozig":https://github.com/mariozig):
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/cd2b14345f97794806293c8317bb6ff5570e1891]
* Fix minor doc bug in logger (Thanks "xylakant":https://github.com/Xylakant):
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/d9926a59dcb7c2526ba760143f5c0b5a1cb80273]
* Add host parameters in DM postgres adapter (Thanks "Aigeruth":https://github.com/Aigeruth):
["commit":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/commit/7e35bdecc19e1f32f974ae6103cd6a504a91fc03]

That concludes the changelog for this release. As always if you want to keep up with Padrino updates, be sure
to follow us on twitter: ["@padrinorb":http://twitter.com/#!/padrinorb], join us on IRC at "#padrinorb" on
freenode or contact us on "GitHub":https://github.com/padrino/padrino-framework/issues.
